# Flammie on capitalism

As a starting point I am not very political person and that applies for
ideologies like capitalism too. However, sometimes it is unavoidable to having
to discuss such things or make a stand.

## Case corona pandemic

**Your investment gets profit on spreading pandemic and killing people.**

One of the most obvious thing to happen during corona pandemic of early 2020's
is that it really brought out have badly system like capitalism fares on things
like health care. At points we seen it so bad that even countries like the USA
were willing to wave intellectual property rights on the vaccines so everyone
could produce it and we would've gotten the whole world vaccinated order of
magnitude faster, it didn't happen because some other home countries of
pharmaceutical companies that earned billions from the vaccine did not let it
happen. Weirdly enough this has not been mentioned in the news except as a side
clause during one week. And this is hardly the only capitalism fail in corona
pandemic, in fact I was kind of hopeful we would overturn capitalism a bit more
during it. Here's a few examples:

* Banning 3-d printed "pirated" respirator parts so pharmaceutical companies
  don't lose money
* countries and governments hoarding the vaccines and throwing them away
* charging exorbitant prices for tests and safety gear
* hiding life-critical information behind paywalls
* [Google showing scam ads instead of real official about how to travel or
  conduct yourself in corona times](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HV2PesXqB34)
* general feeling of *but think about the economy!* when deciding on corona
  rules.

## Advertisments

**Your investment gets profit on annoying people and collecting protection
money.**

Advertisments baffle me. There's literally no person that likes them. Yet in
capitalistic systems more ads is better, is this an example of capitalistic
system distillating to best for all users, when you are forced to watch
something you really don't like and charged protection money monthly to avoid
it?

Google (Alphabet) is one of the biggest companies on earth. 99 % of their profit
comes from advertisments.  The advertisments value to google is so high, that
they will give advertisers privilege to give fake information and scams to
people before the actual useful search results, if you search about what to do
in case of serious injury you might get three ads of products that will probably
kill you before you get to health information. Or, if you live in 2021 and
search for the forms you need to fill for international travel [Google will show
you two three scam sites that steal your money before the actual government's
form](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HV2PesXqB34), ad's are so important to
google they actually make people travel illegally and spread pandemic to scam
you rather than help you!

Social media like facebook these days shows more *Sponsored* content than real
content. This is just ads. And these ads often are made to look like news or
something. And they can be serious stuff, political fake news, anti vaxination
propaganda, etc.

## Dating apps

**Your investment gets profit on keeping people alone and lonely.**

## Healthcare in general

**Your investment gets profit on keeping people sick.**

## Real estate

**Your investment gets profit on keeping people homeless (or in sub-standard
housing they pay for monthly and will never own or have real right to use to
full extent).**

## Patents

https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2022/01/google-loses-sonos-patent-case-starts-stripping-functionality-from-speakers/

## Airtravel

Airtravel is embarassing and it has nothing to do with people flying and
everything to do with companies. It has to be said, since in 2020s it is very
much on trend to flight shame poor people who manage fly once or twice a year to
meet family, have a vacation or meet work colleagues,  it was never about that
and always about the companies. If it were about private people's flying,
wouldn't 2 years of pandemic and travel ban have fixed it all?

* https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/s0sjty/lufthansa_operated_18000_empty_or_nearempty/
* https://www.euronews.com/green/2022/01/06/almost-2-years-into-the-pandemic-empty-flights-are-still-frying-the-planet

