# Flammie on climate change action

As I often tell, I do not participate in politics and such much. As such, this
is just a short note on things I need to argue about on Twitter and social media
every now and then. Number one topic within academic twitter is travelling and
conferences, I can say for myself that there are a lot of times when meeting
personally leads to better results and is necessary, I am happy if someone can
effectively do things on zoop / skyme / gathertown, I personally am much less
efficient with it than being able to work in the same room and tell people what
to do and vice versa. Also, I live in a place that has no rail road and is
inaccessible by any other means than aeroplane, you can keep suggesting me
better options when you come with a travel plan and funding (patreon accepted).

## Flying

First and foremost I oppose flight shaming and other forms of shaming, when it
comes to researchers and scientists, or just other lower and middle class
academic immigrants earning peanuts trying to visit their family, this is one
end of the argument that I need to have an opinion of. We have had a multi-year
pandemic now, we know that behaviour of poor people who travel once or twice a
year is not the key to fix things, we all gave up air travel for two years+ and
it didn't magically fix everything. Even more disturbingly, the airlines flew
thousands of empty planes around and around to fulfill rules they invented
themselves. It is clear to me that the solution here must be from the companies
and not single people's giving up visiting their families and meeting
colleagues. It's all fair and well to strongly prefer travelling on land where
it is practical and affordable (even if you are spending *someone else's money*
as in work trips, it's still someone who has to stress with the budget, if you
are on academic career, your future is to become the one who gets stressed about
the budgets). Not only flying empty planes, but also absurdly pricing longer and
more complicated flights cheaper is solely a problem with the airlines, not
something consumer can effect on. For most of these points, *extinction
rebellion* has pointed out in their agenda that it will not attack single
consumers but the companies and structures, how well it generally happens
changes from protest to protest, but since XR doesn't take monthly donations, it
is quite reasonable to donate the protests that are on point.

