# Flammie on Finnish keyboards / cheat sheet

I use Finnish keyboard layout since I learnt it the first. People who are used
to American English keyboard might find it surprising, but most non-English
keyboards are quite bad for programming since all the ASCII special symbols have
been sacrificed for few more local letters; in Finnish å, ö and ä occupy the
right hand side of the keyboard after op and kl in qwerty ordering. The only
ascii puncts that are easy to use in Finnish keyboard are full stop, comma and
hyphen. Due to laptop keyboard manufacturers being annoying the apostrophe key
can be either left or above enter or somewhere thereabouts and is always
different shape nowadays. The end result of this is that half the time you want
to use apostrophe in English you hit enter instead. There's a less-than,
greater-than key in bottom left of the keyboard, but some laptop manufacturers
have decided to save money and not include this key at all: bonus item, if you
have < or > in your password you physically cannot login on many of these
laptops. Any other ASCII punctuation that are used in programming a lot requires
finger acrobatics!

Finnish computer keyboards are usually really smart with dead keys. You can
write most European latin script languages with default linux Finnish keyboard.
Accent dead keys for grave and acute are same as with windows and engraved to
the keyboard on top right, but also make hooks and cedillas with altgr. I
believe also the umlaut, hat, tilde dead key is also available on Windows too.
After this, you can find combinging slash through in the half key left of number
1, can produce ł and đ and ŧ. The double acute for Hungarian is hiding behind
altgr+å. Some of the non-accent letter also can be altgr'd from guessable
places: ŋ is behind altgr+n, ß is behind altgr+s,

Windows keyboard isn't quite as good with, I think you don't get most dead keys
and then the few altgr combos are used for less than useful stuff, e.g. altgr+s
on windows is š and there's no way to ß.

On android keyboards of course there are no dead keys and no alts. Long hold
sometimes pops up selectors for similar looking things but they are so arbitrary
that rarely useful. We have made with divvun some keyboards that are
specifically useful for some languages, these are in android play stores and
also similar for apple things. I do not use mobile phones to write much at all
so this is generally not a huge issue either way except when I need to use
mobile phone for booking / banking / stuff
