# Generations of humans

*The reason why I write many of the texts in this section of my web site is
usually: a) frequent topic in social media that I have to answer to or b)
clarifying my thoughts on the issue which is quite puzzling. With naming and
classifying it is a bit of both, I see in social media some friends suggesting
that using generation names is wrong and bad stereotyping on the other hand I
see otherwise smart and courteuos friends acting in quite rude and unpolite
manner in questions that can be directly explained looking at generation
stereotypes. Rant that follows tries to rationalise their behaviour and make
sense of backgrounds of stereotypes, this is in reply to very specifically older
people using language that is no longer acceptable and feeling entitled about it
but is in general just overall rant about the topic.*

It is quite commonplace in the social media to talk about generations of humans
as stereotypes to joke about and so on. That is most commonly the generation of
*boomers* and *X* (or *Xoomers*) vs. generations of *millennials* and *Z*. A lot
of people I know try to ignore these generation specifications as inaccurate
stereotypes, but I think it pays off to study them enough to understand how and
why people of certain ages act the way they do; these are valid stereotypes in
scientific sense of the word that they encompass significant majority of people
in a way. Majority of stereotypes you find on internet are based on the
English-speaking world and culture, so they get skewed a bit in terms of years
and specifics applied to people not from UK and Ireland, USA and maybe Australia
and New Zealand.

Here's a helpful summary table that I open up in following sections:

| Name | Birth years | Grown up with | Says | Gays |
| ==== | =========== | ============= | ==== | ==== |
| Baby boomers | 1946–1964 | Rock, TV | N-words etc. | Illegal and mental |
| Generation X | 1964–1983 | Music Television | T-word | Changing legality and mental classification |
| Millennials | 1983–1994 | Metal/Grunge, computers | Fat, Queer | Illegal to marry or adopt |
| Generation Z | 1995–2011 | Internet | ? | Legalised |
| Generation alpha | 2011– | Social media | ? | Yes |

There's a theory in culture that people stop accepting new stuff when they turn
about 30-something, this is another explaining factor in trying to understand
your older generation folks insistence on being offensive and rude. People
generally feel entitled to act like they were taught up until they turned
approx. 35, if that includes using N-word for *baby boomers* or not respecting
peoples' pronouns for *generation X* it really is quite hard to argue against
when dealing with one of them, so mostly no point in trying.

By the way, I am elder millennial, but also grown up as a gay in a city in a city in
Finland with wonderfully supportive friends, purely on empirical evidence I
often associate with millennials better in such English-speaking contexts than
gen-X. One of the things that is curious in comparing the generations is, of
course gays and other sexual and gender representations have been there forever,
it's almost merely the words used to describe them that changed, and the legal
status in society, that makes the difference.

## Baby boomers

For all intents and purposes baby boomers are the oldest generation now in the
early 2000s (sure there are some older still alive but mainly not very actively
in our circles). They are known at current the old people who are still in power
and claiming that youth ruined everything, a concept that never changes
throughout history. Them being old enough they are kind of joining forces with
generation X (collectively *Xoomers*), the main offensive of the early 2000s is
against millennials and maybe generation Z (collectively *snowflakes*). Now,
baby boomers grew up in times before computers and internet, they still use
mainly printed newspapers and broadcast television. When baby boomers were
growing up, it was both illegal to be gay and it was a serious mental disease.
It is important to understand that in many Western contexts people are very
naively law-abiding and even if law updates when you are older you do not update
your underlying judgment (this was illegal and therefore bad when I was growing
up so it is still bad while some people have forced the law to accept it).  In
US context racial inequality was quite common as far as I know, in Europe for
example Ireland even seeing other races was quite rare. From this point, baby
boomers feel entitled to use all kinds of outdated language to describe
non-white people as well as people from other countries, as well as all non-cis
non-straight people.  A good example of what baby boomers find acceptable can be
seen in the TV of that time, *All in the family* in the US or e.g. *Benny Hill
Show* in UK gives an idea of the kind of humour they enjoy. That is to say,
humour that is racist is and male chauvinist is the best

## Generation X

Generation X is the generation that was born before invention of home computers
and the internet, and was old enough to see the development of both home
computers and the internet. Particularly with the Internet, gen xers were adults
before Internet was commonplace, that means that they grew up mainly aware of
local community, laws, people, habits etc., this has the effect that as they are
old now they like baby boomers feel entitled to hold certain outdated views, use
slurs and insults etc. They grew up with homosexuality still being illegal and
protesting homosexuals in tv programmes was a norm. Most Generation X will see
gays as negative, deviants etc., going further they will definitely make fun of
other sexualities and gender representations that were also classified as
illegal and mental disorders in their time. Top of the Generation X can be
explained by TV shows such as *Friends*, *Seinfeld*. *Married with Children* and
also *Beavis and Butthead*. This is to say that top of the humour is still male
chauvinist and homophobic among others.

## Millennials

Millennials is the generation that grew up in the early days of the Internet and
home computers, also my generation so I am biased to say we have improved
somewhat but whatever. I would argue that this has had the effect that even in
communities with relatively low diversity people were starting to grasp the
existence of other cultures and peoples. That being said, Millennial generation
still saw the time of homosexuality developing from illegal and mental disease
to accepted part of the society with equal rights slowly coming in their
adulthood. Most of millennials are very strictly against racism and male
chauvinism for example, however with regards to homophobia they are between Gen
X and Gen Z depending on factors; I have friends who are gay and ally with Gen
Xers in hating gays and myself I go on the side of Gen Z fighting for diversity
in sexual and gender, though being kind of aromantic, asexual and ignoring
gendered clothing and so such since I was young helps to that direction.
I'm not sure if I can find representative TV series we grew up with, we are the
first generation to slowly give up broadcast TV in favour of the internet,
perhaps a lot of our learnt toxicity stems from *anime* instead. Or reality tv?
Millennial generation is quite often fat-phobic for example, maybe *Biggest
loser* is behind that. Millennial generation does often also have old-dated
concepts of trans and non-binary, I do not know if there is a representative tv
series of these jokes?

## Generation Z

Generation Z interestingly grew up with internet, mobile phones, etc. They have
nearly not seen homosexuality being illegal or mental disorder in their life,
the prominent fight of this generation is clearly of gender diversity:
legalising statuses beyond gender binary, trans issues and


