# Flammie on L2 confusables

As an *mobile* academic who has to move every few years and learn new languages,
I have quite a bit of experience of being partially fluent in languages while
still having problems with basics, it's a weird quantum state you learn to live
in as a *L2* speaker of ten different languages. I have noted here some
curiously common confusions in every language I learn, or maybe just the
Indo-European ones but in any case.

| hear | listen |
| teach | learn |
| prefer | recommend |
| remember | remind |
| is | located ~ stands ~ lies |

As I look at the list, I do realise a lot of confusion is made of reflexive -
intransitive - transitive axis of things. It is no surprise, in many languages
these are two–three related words that sound almost the same but have different
argument structure, consequently, if you use the reflexive with external
accusative argument the grammar mistake is so obvious to all native speakers
even the ones who usually do not parse foreigner speak will understand you.

## Hear and listen

In Finnish we have *kuulua* ~ *kuulla* ~ *kuunnella*, the first being a kind of
a reflexive I cannot quite translate to English, i.e. *ääni kuuluu* (the sound
is making itself heard). To hear and to listen as you can see look quite similar
too, not that I'd mix them up in Finnish but still. In German this is tricksy,
too, since *hören* is to hear but *zuhören* is to listen, German confuses me
hear because *zu* is also infinitive marker and you would of course expect *zu
hören* is 'to hear'.

## Teach and learn

In quite many languages, including Finnish, teach and learn are related words:
*oppia* (learn) *opettaa* (teach ~ make learn), *lehren* und *lernen* in German,
*tanul* and *tanít* in Hungarian and so forth. But one interesting thing is that
happens even with native English speakers, is saying things like *I'm going to
learn you this*, to mean teaching, because, of course, learn is reflexive and
teach is transitive, the learn would not make sense in that context otherwise.

## is located standing lying

This is not so big of a problem in English as other foreign languages, but in
general I have the feel that in Finnish when you talk about things being
somewhere whereas in most other languages you should be careful to say if it is
*located*, *standing* or *lying* somewhere. In Swedish *det står där men den
ligger här*, in Russian apparently: Стоя́ть, Лежа́ть, Висе́ть and Находи́ться are a
big difference... I am still just learning. Even in German I noticed a bit of
*stehen* instead of just *sein*.

## Remember and remind

This has especially appeared in my Swedish ~ Norwegian usage, not sure why but I
have originally thought of *minna* / *minne* as 'remember', it is 'remind'. The
word as common as remember is annoyingly not the same in Norwegian and Swedish,
in Norwegian *huske* but in Swedish it's so confusing that you probably say *kom
ihåg* which I think is like 'come up with', or more often workaround with like
*ikke glöm* (don't forget). Interestingly this is also a very strong difference
in idiomatic usage: almost all European languages prefer *don't forget ...* to
*please remember...* except Finnish.

