# Flammie on longest words

Popularised linguistics often has factoids about what is longest word in any
given language. The question interests people while it seems to produce funny
results. Unfortunately, in reality the answer is very boring. Whenever there is
a systematic way to combine words or morphs together, the limit of how long a
word is, is based on how long word we bother to write. Even in English language,
that is notoriously bad at combining such word parts (or good at adding spaces
in such combinations), has some. The common sources for infinitely long words
come from scientific applications, e.g. need to encode to encode chemical
formulas or just numbers as words.

Of course in the world of factoid hunting, one can always say that these are not
real or acceptable words for some arbitrary reason. Thereafter one must look
into what is actually in use, this is something we linguists know very well as
corpus research, and as computational linguists we can do corpus search of
everything in seconds. Unfortunately even so we usually end up with boring
answers that are not acceptable fun factoids, for example, in wikipedia articles
about longest words that are antidisestablishmentiarisms or some such, or
colourful coats that are red-green-blue-yellow-white-black-... just boring.

## English

In English chemistry, and related fields,
probably particularly organic chemistry (I am not a chemist), you can describe
like proteins and complex poly by putting the components together as a word;
they usually contain components like numeric prefixes bi, tri, but also
numbering systems like meth for one, meth for two etc. and interleave those with
-yle, -ene, -in, etc. Or, just look at [IUPAC nomenclature of organic chemistry
(Wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IUPAC_nomenclature_of_organic_chemistry).
Incidentally found this on: [Titin#Linguistic significance
(Wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Titin#Linguistic_significance).

## Most other languages

In awfully many languages, there is a concept of compound words, or writing
words together to make new words. This means that if you have a salesman selling
X's, you come up with Xsalesman, no matter X. As you can notice from the word
salesman in English, it also has some combining, namely sales and man has become
a compound, but for example soap salesman will often be written with a space,
other languages will more systematically not. Now where it gets boring is the
longest word competition, since numbers are commonly compounded like this. The
longest word in any language would be, for example reading out one third in
decimal number form: 0,333333... The longest form depends on where to cut it
again, that is, how many threes we compound together before we get bored. The
system for large numbers by the way, is quite similar to chemistry; numbers from
1-9 have their own words in languages, and also multipliers 10, 100, 1000. Then
10.000 and 100.000 are just 10×1000 and 100×1000. Then comes millions, which
follow a new system: every thousand multiplier we formulate new number by a
prefix mi-, bi-, tri-, etc. and then -illion, and in some languages alternating
with -illiard. I haven't checked with the standards but I assume the prefix
system loops back to millions itself, being infinite.

## References

I kind of started writing this article before viewing this youtube video, but
got up to finishing it because seeing it and he explains it very neatly:

* [The World's longest words (English & beyond)
   (Youtube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9iJXvjV2w4)
