# Flammie on reviewing academic work

*This is not an official guideline for reviewing or anything but my personal
notes, please see [ACL's
guidelines](https://acl-org.github.io/policies/reviewers) and [last minute
reviewing advice of ACL
2017](https://acl2017.wordpress.com/2017/02/23/last-minute-reviewing-advice/)
for serious advice for your reviews.*

As a senior science making human, I spend as much time writing reviews in
academic conferences as I do receiving them. As we all know, there are plenty of
problems in the whole process still in 2020, but I try my best not to add to the
specific problem of *bad* or *useless* or even *rage-quit*-worth reviews. Here
are some guidelines I have found useful as a writer of reviews with some
insights also from the point-of-view of the receiver of the reviews. I try to
always include real-world examples, most of them are either written or received
by me, but some are also found in the wild from twitter or similar contexts.

One of the things that is common throughout this text is that in my opinion, the
scientific peer review fills only few purposes:

1. Improve the quality of the article being reviewed
1. Select the best suitable articles for each venue

By and far, the first is the main reason of the review process for me, most of
the articles I read are usually suitable for presentation... eventually though
sometimes you do need to ask for change of venue or few months more of work for
the benefit of the content really. This is one of the reasons that I have found
it super useful to formulate all my feedback in a way as I would tell my
students or colleagues how to improve their articles, I do not say: *this is
rubbish, I don't get why you did that*, I always write: *it would be interesting
for this conference visitors to know if...* or *it would really help explaining
the ... here if you added examples and these numbers*.


## "Your English was so bad I ignored the content"

It is my pet peeve enough that I have written other rants on [academic
english](academic-english.html), but ignoring that, it is sometimes necessary to
help non-native English speakers to improve the English. The only really useful
way to talk about spelling, grammar etc. errors is to explain things very
pedagogically, you are not improving the article by saying *You're English is
too bad*, *ask a *native* speaker*, *there are 7 grammatical errors in this
article* (these are all from feedback I received! The one that counted the
errors didn't even give one example or pointer of what the errors were!) that's
really just insulting without any positive effect, like, you were not "hired" to
programme committee to give the writers homework. Write the line number, the
sentence fragment and say why it's hard to follow: *I cannot figure out what the
pronoun it refers and I suspect the verb here should've been singular for the
reading you intended?*, *the missing commas here make me think that ...*. I also
use a lot *this may be just my pet peeve in grammar but, ...*, if you are a
younger reviewer you might think it undermines your authority but it actually
makes it more likely for the author to consider the feedback.

When I have been complaining this on twitter, many have commented that
the reviewers have so much to do that they cannot have time to go through all
the grammar mistakes in detail, and that is fair, it is one of the big problems
of the current model, but if you don't have the time to deal with grammar errors
properly, then *don't mention grammar or English quality at all*, it will make
the rest of the review more valuable for the authors. You probably wouldn't deal
with errors in pseudo-code or maths that way either: "there was some logic
errors in the codes of the article but I leave finding them as homework to the
authors"?

Some examples from twitter:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Every conference should offer proofreading for papers without a confident anglophone author. Raise your hand if you&#39;ve given up on a relevant paper because of consistent subject-verb mismatch in the abstract. üôã‚Äç‚ôÄÔ∏è <a href="https://t.co/NoNgxgDMXP">https://t.co/NoNgxgDMXP</a></p>&mdash; Naomi&#39;sAFRAID (@nsaphra) <a href="https://twitter.com/nsaphra/status/1283006163559251968?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


## Describe what you expected

Writing a good review often includes revealing that you had expectations from
the article that were not fulfilled, and while it may not be fault of the
authors of the article, making them understand that potential readers feel this
way, is a good improvement to the article. What I often write in reviews and
like receiving as feedback says this clearly: *When I saw the title I thought
I'd find a solution to my problem, but I didn't find it in the article*, *You
said in the introduction that there is a method to handle frugglypuffs, but I
cannot handle mine with the methods in this article.* and the like.
