# Flammie on *toxicity* and *toxic X-ity* and *Helsinki*

If you are generation X or older, you probably cringe at terms like *toxic
masculinity* or whatever. I am myself an elder millennial and it took me quite a
long time to figure it out as well. But I figured out there is some logic to the
concept, and I just realised it again after reading this tweet on twitter:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="fi" dir="ltr">Äsken Espalla huomautin
itseäni nuoremmalle naiselle, että sen polkupyörän vaijerilukko oli tipahtanut
vaarallisen lähelle pinnoja. ”Kuka vittu sulta on kysynyt neuvoa?”, sain
vastaukseksi.<br><br>Fair enough. Ei kukaan. Mutta tässä lyhyt ketju pyytämättä
annetuista neuvoista 1/x</p>&mdash; Mikko Leskelä (@mikkoantero) <a
href="https://twitter.com/mikkoantero/status/1583768892618715138?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October
22, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async
src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

This is in Finnish, and it is a starter to a thread. It goes, freely translating
“I just said (on a street in Helsinki) to a younger female that their bikes lock
had fallen dangerously close to the the spokes, ‘who the fuck asked you
anything’ she answered--fair enough, nobody, but here's a thread about unasked
advice”. And I believe people from many countries and even places in Finland
outside Helsinki do not understand how common and how *toxic* this kind of
behaviour is. It immediately brought to my mind the time when in a supermarket
in Helsinki I told another customer she forgot an item in their basket, “God
these fucking freaks” was her reply to her friend, obviously loud enough for me
to hear. And it is a very common thing to happen, when you are trying to be
helpful, in Helsinki. I also remember university cafeteria, a student
organisation clubhouse, whether trying to hold the door open, pick up dropped
items, it is basically treated as not minding your own business when you do this
kind of stuff.

And because I was 20–30 years when living in Helsinki, it took me a couple of
years to realise this is not a common human behaviour to avoid helping people,
and almost a decade later to realise how strongly I avoid helping anyone due to
these experiences, and this is where toxicity is actually quite accurate term to
describe what happens. I don't think you never stop expecting someone lashing
back at you for opening a door or picking up a dropped fruit when you've dealt
with it for your whole 20-somethings's, or maybe it's just me. Just, something
to think about if you have a Finnish friend who you insist is being rude.
